University of San Jose-Recoletos
Magallanes St., Cebu City Philippines 6000

				
I. THE VIRTUAL USJ-R

Virtual USJ-R Composition and How it Operates:

Virtual USJ-R is composed of the different virtual offices of the University through Facebook pages.  All the links of the existing Fb pages of the different departments and the newly created virtual offices are placed in the institutional Fb of the University to systematically direct users in terms of the services they would want in USJ-R.  The likelihood of providing erroneous information is reduced if not eliminated because the appropriate virtual offices properly handle the queries.

Virtual USJ-R can connect all stakeholders, other visitors, and guests to University's virtual offices and departments, thus; making the University fully operational.

USJ-R Virtual/Online Office

USJ-R Virtual Office is the online version of the physical support office of the University.  Its operations and services are the same, except it is delivered online.  A “Host of the Day” may be assigned to the administrative assistants, secretaries, and other personnel assigned by the head of the office to attend to any communication.  Moreover, the virtual office connects all personnel who are in the “Work from Home” status and are expected to render their job deliverables. The said virtual office shall be under the close supervision of the head of the office, and its public posts and publications are monitored by a member of the data privacy committee.

★Office of the President
https://www.facebook.com/usjrpresidentoffice/
Institutional Page
https://www.facebook.com/univ.san.jose.recoletos/
International and Local Relations
https://www.facebook.com/USJRILR/
Alumni Relations
https://www.facebook.com/usjralumnirelations/
Quality Assurance Office
https://www.facebook.com/usjrqualityassurance/
★Office of the VP Administration
https://www.facebook.com/usjrvpadminofficial/
Human Resource Management Office
https://www.facebook.com/hrmousjr/?ref=hovercard
Safety and Security Department
https://www.facebook.com/usjrssdofficial/
Adelante Life Emergency Rescue Team
https://www.facebook.com/USJRALERT/
IT Service Department
https://www.facebook.com/USJRITServices/
★Office of the VP Academics
https://www.facebook.com/usjrvpacademics/
University Registrar
https://www.facebook.com/usjrregistrar/
Elementary Department
https://www.facebook.com/usjrelem/
Junior High School
https://www.facebook.com/usjrhighschoolofficial/
Senior High School
https://www.facebook.com/USJRSHS/
College of Arts and Sciences
https://www.facebook.com/USJRArtsandSciences/
College of Education
https://www.facebook.com/usjrcoehallway/
College of Commerce
https://www.facebook.com/usjrcommerceofficial/
College of Engineering
https://www.facebook.com/usjrcoengg/
College of ICCT
https://www.facebook.com/usjrcicct/
College of Allied Medical Sciences
https://www.facebook.com/usjralliedmedsciences/
Graduate School
https://www.facebook.com/usjrgradschoolofficial/
School of Law
https://www.facebook.com/USJRSchoolofLaw/
ETEEAP
https://www.facebook.com/usjreteeapofficial/
Recoletos Industrial and Technological Training Center
https://www.facebook.com/RITTC/
CPA Review
https://www.facebook.com/USJRPRTCcpareview/
Student Development and Placement Center (Admission test inquiries and counselling)
https://www.facebook.com/usjrSDPCcares/
CPRDS (Research Center)
https://www.facebook.com/usjr.researchcenter/
Library System
https://www.facebook.com/USJRLibrary/
Director's Office-Basak
https://www.facebook.com/usjrbasakdirectors/
NSTP-CWTS
https://www.facebook.com/usjrnstpcwtsofficial/
★Office of the VP Finance-Accounting Office
https://www.facebook.com/usjraccountingoffice/
Electronic Data Processing (EDP)
https://www.facebook.com/usjrsisonmessenger/
Campus Planning Office
https://www.facebook.com/usjrcampusplanning/
Property Administrator's Office
https://www.facebook.com/usjrpropertyadminoffice/
★Center for Religious Education
https://www.facebook.com/usjrcre/
Campus Ministry Office-Main
https://www.facebook.com/cmousjrmain/
Campus Ministry Office-Basak
https://www.facebook.com/usjrcmob/
INFECOP
https://www.facebook.com/INFECOP/
★Office of the VP-Student Welfare
https://www.facebook.com/usjrvpsw/
Scholarship Center
https://www.facebook.com/usjrscholarshipcenter/
Student Affairs Office
https://www.facebook.com/sao.usjr.edu.ph/
Athletics Office
https://www.facebook.com/usjrjaguarsadelante/
Medical and Dental Services
https://www.facebook.com/usjrmedicaldental/

GENERAL GUIDELINES:

All colleges and support offices shall have a virtual office. 
 
The virtual office is the Facebook page managed by each department.  It is open during office time: 8:00 in the morning -12:00 noon and 2:00 to 5:30 in the afternoon and manned by the host of the day (HD).

All Facebook pages shall be put all together in the institutional Facebook of the University, which represents the virtual USJ-R.  

No memos must be posted on the Facebook Page. Information must be presented in captions, layouts and infographics.

Other active Facebook page(s) shall be deactivated if not updated. Focus only on the Facebook page that serves as the virtual office to avoid confusion.

The head of the department shall be responsible for the management of the virtual office.  All personnel with assigned roles on the Facebook page shall be given an orientation by the head of the department to maintain the wholesome reputation of the virtual office. 

Create a wholesome image of the virtual office established.  Please note that the virtual office is reflective of and speaks about the image of the University.

The HD shall respond to any queries.  However, he/she must observe proper channelling.  HD shall only answer queries relevant to their virtual office; if otherwise, the queries shall be redirected to the appropriate office.  These processes shall be done with the utmost care.

All replies in the virtual office shall be formal.  No emoji, jokes or sarcastic replies shall be allowed.

Coming across with bashers shall not be a cause for panic.  Act as if it is not affecting us.  Remain professional in dealing with the basher; never become emotional.  Look at the bigger picture and figure out if there is a need to respond.  Share appreciation for the feedback.

No posts or publications are allowed unless approved by the head of the office.

Observe proper etiquette in setting appointments to any personnel in the office.

Posts and publications in the public areas on the Facebook page shall not bear personal information or data.  The personnel shall be reminded at all times to observe data privacy and cyber laws.

A member of the data privacy committee shall be assigned to particular virtual offices to monitor public posts and publications.  In the event there is data or security breach, the assigned data privacy committee member shall report to the Data Privacy Officer (DPO) within 10 hours, the DPO shall gather at least two members of the data privacy committee to address the situation adequately.

In dealing with confidential matters, another platform shall be adopted, such as a doctor’s consultation, which shall be made through an online video conference.  This scheme shall also be true for counseling, whether psychological or spiritual.

RESPONSIBILITIES:

The Host of the Day

Manage contact list.  Be knowledgeable about all Facebook links of Virtual USJ-R.

Provide the best customer service.  Consider a client as the first point of contact.  Provide necessary information needed, whether the queries are the office or to be redirected to another virtual office of the University.

Address queries in the inbox.  Be private in conversing.  Answer only queries belonging to the office.  If otherwise, advise the sender that the message is to be redirected to the virtual office concerned.  Avoid sarcasm, humor, and emoji.  Be polite and respectful to replies.  Avoid capital letters; it comes across as angry.  Focus on the queries; avoid unnecessary comments.

Tailor fits messages to the audience.  Be respectful and mindful in giving responses.

Receive official emails.  Address only emails belonging to the department’s virtual office and forward emails to the right person addressed within the office.  For emails concerning other virtual offices, the host of the day shall advise the sender to send the email to the appropriate virtual office and ask permission to delete it from the inbox.

Organize the virtual office calendar.  Get confirmation from the immediate head or any personnel in the office before scheduling appointments.

Inform immediate head if somebody in the office wants to post or publish on the page.  Avoid posting anything on the Facebook page without the consent of the immediate head.

Facebook Page Administrators, Moderators, Editors, Analysts, and Host of the Day.

A host of the day to man the virtual office.  The host of the day is the front liner of the virtual office (see Responsibilities of the Host of the Day)

Immediate head as administrators.  The immediate head of the department shall be one of the administrators of the Facebook page representing the virtual office.  

Assign Roles to Other Personnel.

Other administrators of the Facebook page shall coordinate with the immediate head.  Though other administrators assigned by the immediate head have the full control of the page, he or she shall ask permission from the immediate head to anything he or she would like to post or publish.

Other personnel may be given the role of Moderators, Editors, Advertisers, and Analysts.  The immediate head assigns other personnel to manage the Facebook page representing their virtual office.  These personnel can have access to the page.  However, the guidelines on managing the virtual offices shall be strictly observed.

The following are the suggested responsibilities of personnel assigned to manage the Facebook page, but it can be modified by the immediate head depending on how the office customizes their functions.  Please note posting or any modification of the posts shall not be allowed without the consent of the immediate head:

Moderator – Can send Messenger messages as the Page, respond to and delete comments on the Page, create ads, see who created a post or comment, and view insights. If an Instagram account is connected to the Page, they can respond to Instagram comments, send direct messages, and create ads.

Editor – Can publish content and send Messenger messages as the Page, respond to and delete comments on the Page, create ads, see who created a post or comment, post from Instagram to Facebook, and view insights. If an Instagram account is connected to the Page, they can respond to and delete comments, send direct messages, sync business contact info, and create ads.

Advertiser – Can create ads, see who created a post or comment, and view insights. If an Instagram account is connected to the Page, they can create ads.

Analyst – Can see which admin created a post or comment and view insights.



II. NETIQUETTE RULES OR ETIQUETTE IN THE INTERNET
(In video format and for internal use)

Words Matter! Be respectful and mindful of what to say.

Respect other's opinions. Be polite and respectful in giving replies.

Avoid unnecessary comments in chatting.
Be positive in approaching to communications, should there be constructive criticisms balance it with a complimentary feedback.

Tailor fit the message to the audience and readers. 

Observe the academic level of communications. Ensure that all readers can fully understand the message.

Avoid sarcasm and humor.

In attending online meetings, observe punctuality, and dress appropriately.  Be in a private place free from noise.

Ask permission if you send jokes, chain letters or emails that are not important and relevant. 

Avoid using capital letters; it comes across as angry.

Keep emails short; long emails may not be given attention.

Observe academic integrity.  Plagiarism is a NO … NO…

Proofread before sending, posting, or publishing.

Avoid posting personal information/data, screenshots, or recordings in meetings or data. Respect data privacy.

Consider output heading in emails relevant, the reader may ignore the email.

Ask permission to forward someone's message to a third party.





III. RULES IN JOINING VIRTUAL MEETINGS

In order to achieve the objective of having interactive and meaningful virtual meetings, the following are the guidelines that each participant must observe:

Please join the scheduled meeting on time.

If we are on video mode, be sure that we are, at least, in appropriate attire. 

If possible, there should be no/less distractions like no TV/radio on; no people talking within your workspace, etc.

When one would like to say something, he/she must ask the presiding officer for recognition.

It is strongly suggested that the microphone is put on only when you would want to say something.

Should you want to bring up an issue during the meeting which can easily be settled internally between the parties concerned, it is suggested that the matter be discussed by them in a separate setting.

As expected, it is good to observe courtesy and respect at all times especially during virtual meetings.

					

